=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Dist::Zilla::Plugin::OptionalFeature - Specify prerequisites for optional features in your distribution

=head1 VERSION

version 0.019

=head1 SYNOPSIS

In your F<dist.ini>:

    [OptionalFeature / XS_Support]
    -description = XS implementation (faster, requires a compiler)
    -prompt = 1
    Foo::Bar::XS = 1.002

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This plugin provides a mechanism for specifying prerequisites for optional
features in metadata, which should cause CPAN clients to interactively prompt
you regarding these features at install time (assuming interactivity is turned
on: e.g. C<< cpanm --interactive Foo::Bar >>).

The feature I<name> and I<description> are required. The name can be extracted
from the plugin name.

You can specify requirements for different phases and relationships with:

    [OptionalFeature / Feature_name]
    -description = description
    -phase = test
    -relationship = requires
    Fitz::Fotz    = 1.23
    Text::SoundEx = 3

If not provided, C<-phase> defaults to C<runtime>, and C<-relationship> to
C<requires>.

To specify feature requirements for multiple phases, provide them as separate
plugin configurations (keeping the feature name and description constant):

    [OptionalFeature / Feature_name]
    -description = description
    -phase = runtime
    Foo::Bar = 0

    [OptionalFeature / Feature_name]
    -description = description
    -phase = test
    Foo::Baz = 0

B<NOTE>: this doesn't seem to work properly with L<CPAN::Meta::Merge> (used in L<Dist::Zilla> since version 5.022).

It is possible that future versions of this plugin may allow a more compact
way of providing sophisticated prerequisite specifications.

If the plugin name is the CamelCase concatenation of a phase and relationship
(or just a relationship), it will set those parameters implicitly.  If you use
a custom name, but it does not specify the relationship, and you didn't
specify either or both of C<-phase> or C<-relationship>, these values default
to C<runtime> and C<requires> respectively.

The example below is equivalent to the synopsis example above, except for the
name of the resulting plugin:

    [OptionalFeature]
    -name = XS_Support
    -description = XS implementation (faster, requires a compiler)
    -phase = runtime
    -relationship = requires
    Foo::Bar::XS = 1.002

B<NOTE>: It is advised that you only specify I<one> prerequisite for a given
feature -- and if necessary, create a separate distribution to encapsulate the
code needed to make that feature work (along with all of its dependencies).
This allows external projects to declare a prerequisite not just on your
distribution, but also a particular feature of that distribution.

=for Pod::Coverage mvp_aliases BUILD metadata register_prereqs

=head1 PROMPTING

At the moment it doesn't appear that any CPAN clients properly support
C<optional_feature> metadata and interactively prompt the user with the
information therein.  Therefore, prompting is added directly to F<Makefile.PL>
when the C<-relationship> is C<requires>. (It doesn't make much sense to
prompt for C<recommends> or C<suggests> features, so prompting is omitted
here.)  You can also enable or disable this explicitly with the C<-prompt> option.
The prompt feature can only be used with F<Makefile.PL>. If a F<Build.PL> is
detected in the build and C<=prompt> is set, the build will fail.

As with any other interactive features, the installing user can bypass the
prompts with C<PERL_MM_USE_DEFAULT=1>.  You may want to set this when running
C<dzil build>.

=head1 CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

This is mostly a restating of the information above.

=over 4

=item * C<-name>

The name of the optional feature, to be presented to the user. Can also be
extracted from the plugin name.

=item * C<-description>

The description of the optional feature, to be presented to the user.
Defaults to the feature name, if not provided.

=item * C<-always_recommend>

If set with a true value, the prerequisites are added to the distribution's
metadata as recommended prerequisites (e.g. L<cpanminus> will install
recommendations with C<--with-recommends>, even when running
non-interactively). Defaults to false, but I recommend you turn this on.

=item * C<-require_develop>

If set with a true value, the prerequisites are added to the distribution's
metadata as develop requires prerequisites (e.g. L<cpanminus> will install
recommendations with C<--with-develop>, even when running
non-interactively).  Defaults to true.

=item * C<-prompt>

If set with a true value, F<Makefile.PL> is modified to include interactive
prompts.

=item * C<-default>

If set with a true value, non-interactive installs will automatically
fold the feature's prerequisites into the regular prerequisites.

=for stopwords miyagawa

Note that at the time of this feature's creation (September 2013), there is no
compliant CPAN client yet, as it invents a new C<x_default> field in metadata
under C<optional_feature> (thanks, miyagawa!)

=item * C<-phase>

The phase of the prequisite(s). Should be one of: build, test, runtime,
or develop.

=item * C<-relationship> (or C<-type>)

The relationship of the prequisite(s). Should be one of: requires, recommends,
suggests, or conflicts.

=back

=head1 SUPPORT

=for stopwords irc

Bugs may be submitted through L<the RT bug tracker|https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Dist-Zilla-Plugin-OptionalFeature>
(or L<bug-Dist-Zilla-Plugin-OptionalFeature@rt.cpan.org|mailto:bug-Dist-Zilla-Plugin-OptionalFeature@rt.cpan.org>).
I am also usually active on irc, as 'ether' at C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<CPAN::Meta::Spec/optional_features>

=item *

L<Module::Install::API/features, feature (Module::Install::Metadata)>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Karen Etheridge.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
